Add `experimental.directRenderScript` option (#10102)
withastro/astro: .changeset/cool-jobs-fetch.md

Reviewer: It's probably worth mentioning that this feature also enables conditional rendering of processed scripts, that wasn't possible before

---
"astro": minor
---

> Adds a new `experimental.directRenderScript` option.
> 
> This option replaces the `experimental.optimizeHoistedScript` option to use a more reliable strategy to prevent scripts being executed in pages they are not used. The scripts are now directly rendered as declared in Astro files (with features like TypeScript, importing `node_modules`, and deduplicating scripts still working), and should result in scripts running in the correct pages compared to the previous static analysis approach. You can also now conditionally render scripts in your Astro file.
> 
> However, as scripts are now directly rendered, they are no longer hoisted to the `<head>` and multiple scripts on a page are no longer bundled together. If you enable this option, you should check if it affects your site's behaviour.
> 

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
Adds a new `experimental.directRenderScript` configuration option which provides a more reliable strategy to prevent scripts from being executed in pages where they are not used. 

This replaces the `experimental.optimizeHoistedScript` flag introduced in v2.10.4 to prevent unused components' scripts from being included in a page unexpectedly. That experimental option no longer exists and must be removed from your configuration, whether or not you enable `directRenderScript`:

```diff
// astro.config.mjs
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';

export default defineConfig({
	experimental: {
-		optimizeHoistedScript: true,
+		directRenderScript: true
	}
});
```

With `experimental.directRenderScript` configured, scripts are now directly rendered as declared in Astro files (including existing features like TypeScript, importing `node_modules`, and deduplicating scripts). You can also now conditionally render scripts in your Astro file.

However, this means scripts are no longer hoisted to the `<head>` and multiple scripts on a page are no longer bundled together. If you enable this option, you should check that all your `<script>` tags behave as expected.
``````
Just a suggestion mostly to show removing the old config, and adding the new. Please update as you see fit to make this accurate!
